Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
1 
 1. Introduction  
Cloud computing is the delivery of different services through the Internet.  It stores all 
information in a cloud server instead of a regular computer.  Cloud computing is internet -
based computing and if we want to use the features of cloud computing we just need a 
browser installed on the computer to connect to the cloud. It prov ides clients with a virtual 
infrastructure on which they simply store and run applications. With the traditional servers 
if we want to run five applications then we need five servers but with the help of 
virtualization techniques, we just need one server i n place of five. G -mail, Facebook, Google 
docs, and YouTube are examples of cloud. This paper shows the implementation details of 
creating a private cloud for college. It is a new approach that reduces capital cost and 
expenditure costs. We do not need to take licensed software and will reduce the power, space, 
and energy constraints. By moving to the cloud, businesses can  reduce their energy 
consumption and carbon footprint by up to 90%.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Cloud computing
Management  
VMs  
VM 
Instances  
 Non 
cloud  
services  
Cloud  
platfo rm 
Host OS  
Hardware  
Hypervisor  
Specific purpose 
hosts (e.g., Storage, 
Load Balancer)  
Networking Equipment  Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
2 
 2. Literature Survey  
This review provides a thorough explanation of relevant prior work on this project. The 
whole review includes documents, papers, and articles, published mostly since 2000.  
Sonali Yadav [1] introduces cloud computing technology and its basic concepts. The 
popularity of private clouds and their deployment is explained.  The pap er describes various 
open -source software to deploy private clouds such as Eucalyptus, OpenStack , and Open 
Nebula. A comparative study is made about these three open -source software's based on their 
architectures. Cloud implementation, programming language , database compatibility, OS 
compatibility of these software’s are mentioned.  
Muhammad et. al. [2]  propose a process framework for supporting migration to cloud 
computing and it is proposed that PaaS clouds would have long term commitments because 
of unavailability of alternative solutions. To meet the quality effectively and efficiently, 
cloud should support for defined SLA and this paper discusses Hackystat systems for 
migration.  
Wei Haoet. al. [3]  considered service and migration as a problem and proposed a framework 
which facilitates service migration. They also designed a cost model and the decisi on 
algorithm to determine the trade -offs on service migration and selection. The paper also 
focuses on the placement of migrated services by considering the migration, maintenance 
and communication costs.  
Scott et. al. [4]  propose SMART decision framework  for migrating software testing 
framework to the cloud and it is based on the SOA migration, Adoption and Reuse technique 
(SMART). This SMART helps organizations to identify their current testing process and 
also describe the requirements of the target clo ud computing environment for performing 
software testing.  
Bram et. al. [5]  presents a test method to determine the viability and value of deployment 
in the cloud. The essential characteristics of the cloud discussed are on -demand, self -service, 
broad netw ork access, resource pooling, rapid elasticity and measured service. The paper 
also proposes a migration model called Adopted cloud migration toolkit.  
Samreet. al. [6]  discussed a distributed high throughput data de -duplication algorithm. A 
migration syste m called VMFlockMS is designed and implemented for flocks of virtual 
machines and this VMFlockMS uses data de -duplication algorithm to reduce the volume of 
data transferred over the network.  
Rashmiet. al. [7]  discuss about Cloud offers like dynamic scalin g, high availability, multi -
tenancy and effective resource allocation and the challenges for migration include business Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
3 
 factors, technical factors and ease of implementation. A Five Phased Waterfall Model is 
proposed which is based on the iterative waterfa ll model from software development life 
cycle.  
Timothy et. al. [8]  discuss Cloudnet, which is a prototype of cloud computing, and it 
provides connectivity between the enterprise and data center sites. Cloudnet supports the 
live WAN migration of virtual ma chines and WAN migration which handles the storage 
with connections and memory state with minimal downtime even in the low bandwidth and 
high latency settings. Cloudnet is optimized to minimize the amount of data transferred and 
lowers both the migration t ime and application experienced downtime. Cloudnet supports 
both synchronous and asynchronous disk replication.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
4 
 3. Motivation   
Cloud computing is a new approach for solving the problems. The advantages of a private 
cloud are that a college can design it for own purpose and change it over time to exactly what 
they needed. The college can also control the quality of service provided . With the right 
systems in place, security and regular information can be maintained. They will also give a 
better service and worked in service level agreement. The implementation of private cloud 
for organizations shows that organizations can reduce the ir expenditure cost as well as 
capital cost. They can also reduce power, space and energy constraints. There is a limit 
flexibility of scaling virtual machines.  
3.1 Purpose  
If an organization has only 2 to 3 computers, then manual software installation is  not an 
issue. Things get complicated when the organizations are medium to big sized. Software 
deployment involves multiple tasks like downloading the software from various vendor sites, 
identifying the silent switches, storing the software in a specific s ystem location to silently 
installing them on the client computers without interrupting regular tasks. It is undoubtedly 
a never -ending and complex task, and all of these when done manually, will inevitably lead 
to human errors.  
 3.2 Scope  
D Y Patil College of Engineering on average, have around 2000 students from all parts of 
India. ERP Software (CollPoll) of the college manages all the records of students, faculties 
as well as all the other departments.  
If any faculty leaves the college or any new f aculty joins, the admin can easily track their 
records and data.   In the same way, if any student completes his B. E. and passed out from 
university and the record of student is still on ERP and after one year from completed the 
degree, now the registratio n number of student does not exist. Now there is a need of private 
cloud for university, so that the record of students is available at a long time. Now if any 
student wants any of his document urgently, he will just connect to private cloud of 
university and download all the documents as needed.  
 3.3 Objective  
The existence of this system is projected to have a considerable positive effect on the 
convenience and manual work for the faculty and management of the DYPCOE IT Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
5 
 Department, increasing the efficie ncy of the department. The benefits of a self -deployed 
cloud platform are plenty. Benefits like efficiency and control, disaster recovery scalability, 
security, privacy and compliance are offered by private cloud. From a faculty perspective, 
hosting locall y is much less costly and easier to administrate than cloud solutions. The 
security and ease of access to the department’s resources is to be acknowledged.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
6 
 4. Problem Definition  
Resource sharing between members is an important function of any organization and this 
process should be as fast and convenient as possible. When the resource sharing methods are 
inefficient, the working of the organization becomes inefficient.  
Considerin g a case study, in the IT department, when there is a need to install specific 
software on all the computers in the laboratory, the current method involves installing the 
software on each system manually, which becomes a time -consuming and inefficient task . 
In the same way, if there is a requirement to format all the computers in the laboratory then 
with the current method, each computer needs to be formatted separately. All of this requires 
repetitive human effort leading to expenses paid by the college. A  solution to these problems 
needs to be designed in such a way that remote installation and formatting of all the 
computers is possible at the same time and with a single point of control.  
Public clouds are hosted services available by cloud service provi ders on the internet. 
Organizations that use web servers or application systems where security and compliance 
requirements are not very rigid normally prefer to use public clouds. For example, public  
cloud services are available in the form of web -based em ail, data storage or file transfers 
over the internet, online office applications, web hosting and so on.  
Contrary to the above, private clouds or enterprise clouds are used by organizations that have 
security, compliance and data privacy as their top pri ority.  Private clouds offer increased 
isolation and compatibility with more types of workloads.    Private clouds are deployed 
inside firewalls and offer robust IT security for the organization. If a data center 
infrastructure is already available with the organization the private cloud can be 
implemented in -house. However, for having in -house private  clouds the organization needs 
to invest heavily in running and maintaining the infrastructure which can result in significant 
capital expenditure. This can be a major setback for organizations thinking about reducing 
IT budgets. Private cloud services are  also made available by cloud service providers or data 
centers. Examples of private cloud implementations can be easily found in areas such as 
banking and financial institutions, large enterprise organizations, government organizations, 
etc. where only au thorized users are able to access the system.  
 
 
 
 
 Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
7 
 5. System Architecture  
To manage all the resources, we will be developing architecture where all the faculties and 
students can connect with each other. It will be a centralized system where the admin can 
monitor all the resources software and hardware remotely.  
 
 
Figure 2: System Block Diagram  
 
5.1 OpenStack Architecture  
Our proposed system architecture is based on OpenStack framework. This framework is 
dependent on the networking environment.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: OpenStack System Architecture  
Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
8 
 5.2  OpenStack Components  
First,  we will see the OpenStack architecture which includes various components  such as:  
1. Dashboard (Horizon) : It provides GUI to the users to handle the cloud and perform some 
tasks like managing and monitoring the instances, creating  key pair for security, a ttached or 
detached storage or volume to the instances and many more.  
2. Keystone (Identity) : Keystone is a service of OpenStack that offers shared multi -tenant 
authorization, service discovery, and API client authentication by implementing Identity API 
of OpenStack. Commonly, it is an authentication system around the cloud OS.  
3. Compute (Nova) : It handles the Virtual Machine created on cloud. It handles creations, 
start and stop operations of instances and many more.  
4. Image (Glance) : It’s like an index of Virtual Disk Images with which we can create 
snapshots as a backup and use them when ever you want. Supported image formats are 
QCOW2, VHD, ISO, VMDK, VDI  
5. Networking (Neutron) : User can create our own network on cloud and  connect nodes 
observers to the one or more network present in the organizations . 
5.3 Cloud Architecture for College.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Cloud Architecture for DYPCOE  
 
This cloud is going to develop on blade servers present in the college data center or we can 
also implement them on commodity hardware without spending any money on buying high 
configured machines. Then students or teachers use this cloud in the Labs throu gh the local 
Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
9 
 network in their campus or they can also use it on their laptops or on mobiles through the 
router configured in the same network. This cloud setup is limited to a single organization 
and only the students and teachers who are present in that o rganization are authorized to 
access cloud services. Every student or teacher must go through authentication process for 
security purposes. We can make this cloud public also to use for other organizations but due 
to privacy concern we prefer the Private c loud.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Class diagram for department  
 
 
Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
10 
 6. Use Case Diagram:  
The below  use-case diagram describes the functions and scope of the system. It also 
identifies the interactions between the system and its actors. It describes the use cases and 
actors as well as what the system does and how the actor uses it.  
 
 
Figure 6: Use-case Diagram  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
11 
  
      
7. Design Details  
The proposed system is implemented using open -source software called OpenStack and 
Ubuntu operating system. The three nodes such as Compute, Controller, and Storage are 
installed with Ubuntu server operating system because all these nodes have to behave like 
servers as shown in Fig. 7. Compute node is installed with the Nova packages  and services. 
The controller node is installed with the Glance, Keystone and Horizon packages and 
services. The storage node is installed with the Swift or cinder packages and the services. 
All three nodes are connected internally to OpenStack Dashboard w ith an internal network. 
The Application which is ready to use the cloud service is connected through an external 
network to the controller node of the private cloud.  
Private Cloud Deployment According to the component of OpenStack, PC servers install 
one of the OpenStack components, then all the servers can work together.  
 
Controller Node  
The installation of controller node starting with update and upgrade command. But before 
starting implementation make sure that the controller node must have two NIC card s 
(network interface card ). First NIC address save as a static IP and other one saves  as DHCP 
(Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol ) and then start working with first database service is 
SQL service and then step by step Message queue and RabbitMQ services.  Then NTP service 
synchronizes the services among servers. Other servers follow the controller node for 
synchronization. All the information entered while installation of OpenStack is stored in 
SQL DB service, Message queue service work as message broker b etween machines. Once 
we implement the basic services then remaining services Keystone, Glance, Nova, Neutron 
and Horizon are installed step by step. These services are mandatory for installation of cloud. 
Apart from this we can install other services as p er our need like Orchestration, Block 
Storage, Telemetry and many more.  
 
Compute Node  
Compute node works on Nova service which is important and used to handle the instances 
on cloud framework. RAM, Storage and Maintenance of instances is handled by compute  
node. By default, Hypervisor of compute node is KVM ( Kernel -based Virtual Machine ). It 
also works on networking for communication to the controller node. The power of cloud in Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
12 
 terms of processing and storage increases by increasing more compute nodes in t he same 
network. Once we done with successful installation of controller and compute node , we got 
the dashboard of OpenStack Cloud from where we can manage our cloud framework. Then 
we launch an instances on cloud and provide to the students for their lear ning courses. When 
the cloud is setup in organizational environment then we can easily provide IAAS, PAAS 
and SAAS services to the user. Due to this easy way of installation and proper utilization of 
hardware and better services provided by cloud OpenStack  is the great learning methodology 
for students.  
 
Figure 7: OpenStack Implementation Architectu re  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
13 
 7. Conclusion  
In this report, a solution has been proposed for the inefficient approach of manually installing 
software on all computers of a laboratory. This private cloud solution will use the single 
node multiple instances topology to remotely install software from one node computer to all 
the computers at the same time. The advantages of using a private cloud over a public cloud  
is discussed. This system uses  the open -source software OpenStack to create and manage 
the private cloud. This approach will not only save time, expenditure cost and energy, but 
also in crease security. This study  will also open new use cases for this project.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
14 
 8. References  
[1] Sonali Yadav, “Comparative Study on Open -Source Software for Cloud Computing 
Platform: Eucalyptus, OpenStack and Open Nebula”, International Journal of Engineering 
and Science, Vol.3, Issue 10 (October 2013), pp 51 -54, ISSN (e): 2278 -4721, ISSN (p):231 9-
6483.  
[2] Muhammad Aufeef Chauhan, Muhammad Ali Babar, “Migrating Service -Oriented 
System to Cloud Computing: An Experience Report”, 4thInternational Conference on Cloud 
Computing, Washington, DC, International Journal of Emerging Trends & Technology in  
Computer Science (IJETTCS) Web Site: www.ijettcs.org Email: editor@ijettcs.org Volume 
3, Issue 3, May – June 2014 ISSN 2278 -6856 Volume 3, Issue 3 May – June 2014 Page 145 
4-9 July 2011, pp 404 -411, Print ISBN: 978 -1-4577 - 0836 -7, 
DOI:10.1109/CLOUD.2011.4 6.  
[3] Wei Hao, I -Ling Yen, Bhavani Thuraisingham, “Dynamic Service and Data Migration 
in the Clouds”, 33rd Annual IEEE International Computer Software and Applications 
Conference, Seattle, WA, 20 -24 July 2009, pp 134 -139, Print ISBN: 978 -0- 7695 -3726 -9, 
DOI: 10.1109/COMPSAC.2009.127.  
[4] Scott Tilley, Tauhida Parveen, “Migrating Software Testing to the Cloud”, IEEE 
International Conference on Software Maintenance (ICSM), Timisoara, 12 -18 Sept. 2010, 
pp 1, Print ISBN: 978 - 1-4244 -8630 -4, DOI:10.1109/ICSM. 2010.5610422.  
[5] Bram Rogen, “Making the case for migration of information systems to the 
cloud”,16thStudent Conference on IT, Enschede, The Netherlands, Jan 27, 2012, Copyright 
2011, University of Twente, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mathematics a nd Computer 
Science.  
 [6] Samer Al -Kiswani, Dinesh Shubhravati, Prasenjit Sarkar, Matei Ripeanu, “VMFlock: 
Virtual Machine Co -Migration for the Cloud”, 20thInternational Symposium on high 
performance distributed computing, New York USA, 2011, pp 159 -170, P rint ISBN: 978 -1-
4503 -0552 -5, DOI:10.1145/1996130.1996153.  
[7] Rashmi, Dr. Shabana, Mahfuz, Dr. G. Sahoo, “A five -phased approach for the cloud 
migration”, International Journal of Emerging Technology and Advanced Engineering, 
April 2012, ISSN 2250 -2459. [8] Timothy Wood, Prashant Shenoy, K. K. Ramakrishnan Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
15 
 Jacobus, V an der Merwe, “Cloudnet: Dynamic Pooling of Cloud Resources by Live WAN 
Migration of Virtual Machines”, 7th ACM SIGPLAN/SIGOPS international conference on 
Virtual execution environments Newpo rt Beach, California, USA, March 9 -11, 2011, pp121 -
132, Print ISBN: 978 - 1-4503 -0687 -4, DOI:10.1145/1952682.1952699.  
[8] Parastoo Mohagheghi, Thor Saether, “Software Engineering Challenges for Migration to 
the Service Cloud Paradigm”,2011 IEEE World Congr ess on Services, Washington, DC, 4 -
9 July 2011, pp 507 - 514, Print ISBN:978 -1-4577 -0879 - 4, 
DOI:10.1109/SERVICES.2011.26.  
[9] Konstantinos Oikonomou, Ioannis Stavrakakis, “Scalable Service Migration in 
Autonomic Network Environments”, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in communications, 
New jersey, Jan2010, pp 84 - 94, ISSN:0733 - 8716, DOI:10.1109/JSAC.2010.100109.  
[10] Jain, R. and Paul, S. Network Virtualization and Software Defined Networking for 
Cloud Computing: A Survey. Communications Magazine, IEEE, 51 (11), 24 -31, 2013.  
[11] Younge, A. J., Henschel, R., Brown, J. T., Laszewski, G. v., Qiu, J. and Fox, G. C. 
Analysis of Vir tualization Technologies for High Performance Computing Environments. In 
Proceedings of the Cloud Computing (CLOUD),2011 IEEE International Conference on 
(Washington, DC, 2011).  
[12] https://www.openstack.org/  
[13] https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/linux -platforms/openstack -platform  
[14] https://docs.openstack.org/security -threat -analysis/architecture -diagramguidance.html  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seminar Report                                  Remote Installation of Software using  Private Cloud  
16 
  
9. Plagiarism Check report:  
 
 
 
 
    
    
    
    
    
    
 
